Welcome to God Day.
I'm Pastor Derek Walker from the Oxford Bible Church.
And I want to share with you today a message called Anointed for Burial.
And this is the key event, I believe, that is the opening of what we call Passion Week.
Now, Passion Week, Passion means suffering, actually.
So this is the week of Christ's death and resurrection.
What had happened in John chapter 11, because we're going to look in John chapter 12, in John chapter 11, Jesus had raised Lazarus from the dead.
And that caused such a stir because it was a real proof that he was the Messiah.
And so he went away for a few weeks out of danger because they were out to kill him.
And in fact, the miracle of Lazarus's resurrection, that's when they decided for sure they were going to.
have him put to death.
And so Jesus went away for a time until the time that God had ordained for him to die, which is at Passover because he was to die as our Passover lamb.
Passover is the feast that pictures our salvation because in the original Passover in Exodus, the destroying angel, the wrath of God was coming through to kill all the firstborn.
And God said, there is only one way of salvation.
And that is the blood of the Lamb, the blood of the Passover Lamb.
And although the Israelites that put the blood of the Lamb on their doors, it says that the Lord hovered over them and protected them.
And so the destroying angel passed them by.
And this is a wonderful picture of salvation, of course, because if we believe in the blood of the Passover lamb and declare our faith in the blood of Jesus, then the wrath of God does not come upon us.
We are protected from the wrath of God because the Passover lamb Jesus himself has borne our wrath for us.
And 1 Corinthians 5, 7 says, Jesus, our Passover lamb has been sacrificed for us.
Thank God for the Passover lamb, but now this is the key moment now that in fact in Exodus 12 it says that the Passover lamb, the story if you like of the Passover lamb begins on the 10th of Nizan.
That is he's to be offered up on the 14th of Nizan, but he is to be set apart
out on the 10th of Nizan.
He had to be without blemish.
And on the 10th of Nizan, he's to be set apart for sacrifice.
And in those days, they would make sure that he was without blemish.
And then he would be sacrificed on the 14th.
And so what we're looking at today, the start of the passion week is when Jesus now officially rides, comes
to present himself for sacrifice as our Passover lamb.
As I say, he'd been in a safe place called Ephraim out of reach of the authorities for a number of weeks.
But now he comes to Bethany, just next door to Jerusalem, right into the danger zone.
And he knows that they are out to kill him.
And so he comes and
What we're looking at now in John chapter 12 is the opening of Passion Week.
This is where it all begins.
And the action begins with him being anointed for burial.
And it's interesting that the next morning is the triumphal entry.
We read that in verse 12.
He goes and presents himself to Israel.
Yes, as her king, but also he is also offering himself to Israel as the Passover lamb for their salvation.
And that was on the 10th of Nizan.
And for the next few days, they tested him, they interrogated him, and he proved himself to be without blemish.
And then he was sacrificed as the Passover lamb.
And so we often think of Palm Sunday, but actually,
It was Palm Monday.
It couldn't have been Palm Sunday because the day before would have been the Sabbath.
And we see that on the day before, Jesus was traveling and it was wrong to travel on the Sabbath.
So we're going to pick up the story here.
In John chapter 12, it says, then six days before the Passover, six days before.
Now, if you count inclusively back from the Friday, that will take you to the Sunday.
And so
Jesus traveled on the Sunday with the other pilgrims up from Jericho up that steep route and arrived at Bethany near the evening time and then it was he was given a supper in his honor at in Bethany and at this supper something amazing happened that Jesus said was so important it should be recorded
for everyone to hear as a memorial whenever the gospel is preached.
And so this is a truly important event at the opening of the Passion Week.
So let's have a look at that.
It says, then six days before the Passover, as I said, this is a Sunday evening.
Jesus came to Bethany where Lazarus who had been dead, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he had raised from the dead.
And there they made him a supper and Martha served.
And Lazarus was one of those who sat at table with him.
Then Mary took a pound of very costly oil of spike nard, anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair.
And the house was filled with the fragrance of the oil.
And so we see Mary do a beautiful thing here by anointing Jesus.
And we're going to look into the significance of this because
She knew, you see, that Jesus was, he had talked about, but he would suffer and die and rise again.
And she was led by the Holy Spirit to anoint Jesus, to set him apart for burial.
And this is the opening of the Passion Week.
And so it says that in John 11 to this incident,
of Mary anointing Jesus was actually well known already when John wrote his gospel.
He wrote his gospel a bit later than the other three gospel writers.
And so he didn't usually repeat stuff from the other gospels.
Occasionally he did, if it was especially important, but normally he would just add in extra details and clarification.
And so it was already well known.
about this famous incident of Mary.
And in fact, in John 11.2 it says, talking about the story of Lazarus being raised from the dead.
It was that Mary, he said, who anointed the Lord with fragrant oil and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
And so he's appealing to what they already knew, only now he's revealing who this woman was.
It was Mary of Bethany, who did this
act of worship and so we can go now to the other gospels to see how they describe this this incident and that gives us a bit more information.
Matthew 26 verse 6 it says and when Jesus was in Bethany at the house of Simon the leper that's where this was a leper that had been healed and who lived in Bethany and so the meal was at their house and then a woman
came to him.
Again, we know this is Mary, having an alabaster flask of very costly fragrant oil, and she poured it on his head as he sat at the table.
Now, John says that he, she poured it on his feet, but here we see it was also poured on his head.
And in Mark 14, 3, it says, then she broke the flask
and poured it out on his head.
She broke it.
She just smashed it and poured it all out on Jesus.
And then it says, again, going back to Matthew in verse eight, it says, but when his disciples saw it, they were indignant saying, why this waste for this fragrant oil might have been sold for much and given to the poor.
But when Jesus was aware of it, he said to them, why do you trouble the woman?
She said, he said, for she has done a good work for me, for you have the poor with you always, but me, you do not have always for in pouring this fragrant oil on my body.
She did it for my burial.
So notice she didn't just pour it on his head and on his feet, but on this whole body, she just threw it all this, this beautiful fragrance covered Jesus with it.
And he says, she did it for my burial.
Surely I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world that what this woman has done will also be told as a memorial to her.
Then one of the 12 called Judas Iscariot went to the 12 priests and said, what are you willing to give me if I deliver him to you?
And that's when he made his plan to betray Jesus.
We'll see why Judas was provoked by this incident.
And that's why
Again, we're at the start of Passion Week.
This triggers Judas to betray Jesus, which ultimately leads to his death.
So going back to John now, let's just notice, this is a wonderful picture of Jesus in the house of his friends.
And these are pictures of true believers.
First of all, a true believer is washed and welcoming.
Praise God.
In other words,
We look at Simon, the cleansed leper.
He was a man who had leprosy.
This is a picture of sin and a terrible infection.
And you weren't healed of leprosy so much as you were cleansed from leprosy because it's a picture of sin.
And so he had been cleansed by Jesus.
And that's a picture of us.
We are all forgiven sinners who have been cleansed by Jesus.
And as a result, Simon opened his heart and his home to welcome
to welcome people and to welcome Jesus in particular.
And so when we are these washed forgiven sinners, we open up our heart and our lives to receive Jesus and have fellowship with Jesus.
And of course, Jesus is the Lord's people as well.
And the second person we see is Martha, who was serving
And again, whenever we see Martha, she's busy, she's serving, she's rolling up her sleeves and helping.
And that's another picture of a true believer who's always willing to serve, praise God.
And then we see Lazarus.
In fact, in verse 9 to 11 of John 12, we read this because Lazarus is a picture of a witnessing disciple.
He had just had an outstanding
miracle, of course, he was raised after four days.
And we're told in verse 9 to 11, now, a great many of the Jews knew that he was there, and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but they might also see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.
But the chief priests plotted to put Lazarus to death also, because on account of him, many of the Jews went, or literally, they were going away, and they were believing in Jesus.
And what this is saying is that over a period of weeks, since his miracle, he was being visited by many, many Jews to hear his story and to see him in person.
And Lazarus had been faithfully witnessing to them.
And as a result, many of them were actually leaving the religious leaders and believing in Jesus.
So he is a picture of a witnessing
and he was so effective in his witness that they also plan to kill Lazarus too because he was living proof that Jesus is the Messiah.
But the main focus we want to look at as we look at different pictures of believers is Mary and she is worshiping.
She is a picture of a believer who worships the Lord and what a picture she gives us.
In verse three
John 12.3 it says, then Mary took a pound of very costly oil of spike nard, which as we read in Matthew was in Alabasca flask.
And she anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair and the house was filled with the fragrance of the oil.
And she is a picture of a true worshipper lavishing all her love
on Christ.
She is extravagant as we're going to see.
She doesn't just, she has got this very expensive jar.
We'll see that it's actually was worth a year's wages.
You know, so we might say 20,000 pounds, 30,000 pounds.
You know, something like this.
And she actually, this was probably her life savings.
You know, she had put her money into this very expensive perfume that had to be brought from India or Tibet.
And this was very valuable, really her life savings.
And what a sensible thing would have been is to, you know, open it and just give a little bit to anoint Jesus with.
This is the kind of perfume that you would keep and use a bit of the time over many years, perhaps.
But instead of that,
she smashed it and she gave Jesus her all.
She withhold nothing.
And this actually brings causes her to be criticized as we're going to see.
But this is a picture of believers worshiping God where they pour their all out for the Lord.
They don't hold back.
They don't measure their love.
We give everything to the Lord.
And in fact, this process
that she acted out is a picture of what should happen in us, because the perfume is like our spirit, our love that is inside us, when Christ has saved us and changed us, you see.
But there is an outward resistance in our soul to give all our love to the Lord.
And something has to be broken.
There needs to be a breaking of our pride.
There needs to be a breaking of that thing that causes us to hold ourselves back, to not give our all.
And in our soul, there's, it's, what you may need called it, the independent soul life.
It's something that resists just abandoning ourselves to God and trusting in God completely.
that had to be broken.
And one of the ways that is broken is Mary was so overwhelmed with God's extravagant love for her that she actually, her pride was broken.
And now she just, like the vase was broken, her pride was broken so that now all the perfume, all the spirit in her was
released.
Let's see that again in verse 3, it says, then Mary took a pound, big quantity of very expensive stuff, a very costly oil of spark nard and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair and the house was filled with the fragrance of the oil.
And when we are overwhelmed with the love of Christ for us, we will, our pride is broken and we just
give our all to Him.
And when we do, when our Spirit is released in worship, and then the Spirit of God is released through us, and it fills the whole atmosphere around us.
Our life becomes filled with the fragrance of Jesus, and also we carry that atmosphere with us.
And so notice also Mary was at Jesus' feet.
Whenever we see Mary, she's always at Jesus' feet.
And it's interesting that in rabbis of that time, their followers serve them.
But what they wouldn't do is minister to their feet because that was considered the job of a slave.
And so remember, John the Baptist said, I'm not worthy even to untie Jesus' sandals.
But what Mary is doing at the feet of Jesus is going beyond.
She is actually saying, everything I am, everything I have belongs to Jesus.
And so she is at his feet, worshiping him.
and also she takes her hair.
Now a woman's hair is her glory according to 1 Corinthians 11, 15.
So she is laying her glory at his feet by wiping his feet with her hair.
And so she is giving her all to Jesus.
And that's why Jesus said wherever the gospel is preached, this should be a memorial to her.
First of all, what she did was
as we're going to see, anoint Jesus for burial.
So it was an important part of the story of the lead up to his death and resurrection.
But this is the opening of Passion Week when he was set aside to be the Lamb of God.
But also it's to be mentioned whenever the gospel is preached because that is the desired fruit of the gospel.
You know
when the gospel has truly reached your heart, penetrated your heart, that you are so aware of the extravagant love of Jesus for you because this is what he did for you.
His body was broken and his life and his love, his blood was poured out for you and so that it fills
His presence fills the whole earth so that all people can be saved.
Because Jesus was extravagant in His love for us, then the appropriate response for us is to likewise, like Mary did.
She gives us the example.
Give the Lord Jesus our all in worship.
Has your pride been broken to the place where you are able to give all your love to Jesus?
To like Mary?
To be at His feet?
to worship, to surrender and give Him your all.
Because that is what the gospel should produce in your life if you have truly understood and received it.
Now, let's contrast Mary with Judas, the opposite, who is a counterfeit believer.
And we'll see that his attitude showed that he wasn't a real believer.
In fact, he considered Jesus unworthy of worship.
Verse 4 it says, but one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, who would betray him, said, why was this fragrant oil not sold for 300 denari and given to the poor?
Now that's 300 days wages, that's like a year's salary.
He said, why didn't she give it to the poor?
And he's basically saying, and in the other gospel it says that why this waste, you have wasted
Thousands of pounds on Jesus.
In other words, Jesus isn't worth it.
It could have been used for the poor, which sounded reasonable.
And actually the other disciples came into agreement with Judas.
They didn't realize he was in a wrong spirit at the time.
And so it explains in verse six, this he said, not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief and he had the money box and he used to take what was put in it.
So Judas was motivated by greed.
He said, oh, we ought to give it to the poor.
But his idea was he would, the money could be given to him.
It could be sold.
He would sell it and get the money.
He'd pretend to give it all to the poor, but actually he would take a huge cut for himself.
And they wouldn't realize he'd probably take a quarter of it for himself.
And so it's because he wanted the money.
And he's a picture of someone who looked like he was a Christian, if you like, a follower of Jesus, but actually he was only in it for himself.
He was only in it to get the money and the power.
He thought if Jesus became the kind of political leader and messiah, then he would be one of the top men and he'd have lots of power and wealth.
That's why he was in it.
And that's why, by the way, when Jesus said, actually Mary's anointed me for burial,
Jesus was confirming that he was going to die.
Jesus said, Judas thought, well, that's not what I signed up for.
I signed up so I could become rich and powerful.
And so he thought, well, if Jesus is going to die, I might as well get some kind of money out of this.
And that's why he betrayed Jesus for 30 pieces of silver.
And then I'll be in good standing with the religious authorities and I'll be
I'll be rewarded accordingly.
And so Judas is somebody who looks like they're following Jesus, but they're actually using Jesus for their own ends.
And the moment they have to sacrifice as part of following Jesus, like Mary was willing to sacrifice her life savings to obey God, to honor Jesus.
But when it looked like Judas would have to sacrifice, when it seemed like Jesus was going to die.
He was out of here.
And so he wasn't really a follower of Jesus.
He didn't love him personally.
He was just using him.
And so unbelief will always end up in renunciation of Jesus in the end.
And so he's a picture of someone who wasn't one, didn't have a committed relationship to Jesus.
He was just in it for himself.
Whereas Mary is a picture of a true believer who is
totally devoted to the Lord.
And so the world thinks you waste your time when you spend time worshipping the Lord, or if you spend time in church, or if you spend time at the beginning of each day worshipping God, and your flesh will tell you, it's a waste.
You could be doing something productive with that time.
But what you give to the Lord is never a waste.
All right.
And what Mary did was not wasted.
It was sacrificial, but at number one, it pleased Jesus heart.
Number two, she fulfilled the will of God in anointing him for burial.
And number three, she has now become famous as somebody giving us the example of worshiping God.
So verse seven, it says, Jesus said, let her alone, for she has kept this for the day of my burial.
And what
What Jesus is saying to Judas is, leave her be because she is not to sell it for the poor, but she is actually, she had this for a time.
It was her life savings.
And when she heard Jesus talk about that, he would have to die and rise again.
She then put this savings, this ointment aside for his burial, to anoint him for his burial.
And so, and then of course,
She was obviously led by God not to wait till he actually died, but to actually anoint him right then.
And she obeyed God in that.
And as a result, through her obedience, she was greatly blessed, greatly honored as a result.
And so because she stayed so close to the Lord, always at His feet, she had that spiritual sensitivity to know what to do.
And she poured
her very best out to the Lord.
And what she was actually doing is she was anointing Jesus, the Passover lamb for burial.
And over the next few days, Jesus would start his walk to the cross until he ultimately offered himself up as the Passover lamb.
And then on the last day of the Passion Week, he rose again from the dead, victorious, having accomplished our salvation.
And so the Lord loves you.
He has
been broken for you.
And he has poured out his love and he's poured out his blood and his Holy Spirit.
And now the perfume of his sacrificial offering fills the world.
And now, as you realize he did that for you, out of love for you, our response must be to do the same, to say, to give Jesus our all.
Let the truth, let the revelation of this, break your pride.
The pride that says, oh, I mustn't, you know, the pride that stops you lifting up your hands, the pride that stops you giving your all, shouting your praise to God or lying prostrate on the floor, giving God your worship.
Let that be broken as you realize Jesus gave his all for you.
So you should give your all to him.
Hold nothing back.
be extravagant in your love for God because this is the example that Mary has given us.
And she is to be our example.
But as Jesus said, what she has done is to be a memorial for all those who've heard the gospel.
This is the response God wants from us.
He wants our hearts and he wants all of us that we would be willing to
to give him our all and sacrifice our all if he asks for it.
And so please be inspired by the love and the worship of Mary of Bethany.
God bless you.